website/docs/key-concepts/browsers.mdx, before:

---
id: browsers
title: Browsers
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: TODO
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

import NumberedOverlay from '@site/src/components/NumberedOverlay';

One of Floe's core goals is to provide a fast and fluid way to find and load sounds across large sound pools: the _browsers_ are the main way to do this.

You may spend a lot of time with the browsers. They're used in several places on the interface:
- Presets
- Instruments for each layer
- Impulse responses for the Convolution Reverb effect

They all largely work the same way, with some minor differences depending on context.

<video width="100%" controls>
  <source src="/images/browser-usage.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## Overview

The fundamental design is a two-panel layout: filters on the left, and results on the right (loadable items).

Similar to if you were shopping online for t-shirts: you might use filters to narrow down the results by size, colour, price range, etc., and then browse the results that match your criteria. 

The same principle applies here, except we use filters such as library, tag, or folder to instantly narrow down results of presets, instruments, or impulse responses.

By default, we start simple - you can only select one filter at a time; if you click on another filter, it replaces the existing one. You can change to a multi-select mode using the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu in the top-right.

When no filters are applied, all items are shown in the results list.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser.png"
    alt="Browser Panel"
    overlays={[
        { number: 3, top: "20%", left: "39.3%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "12%", left: "0.5%", width: "44.2%", height: "87.8%" },
        { number: 2, top: "12%", left: "46%", width: "53.5%", height: "87.8%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: filters panel: filters to narrow down the results. Here we can see filters for libraries (Celtic Harp, Dulcitone, Lost Reveries, etc.) and folders within those libraries (Core, Extras, Mic Options, etc.). Clicking on these will filter down the results on the right panel (2).
- **2**: the results list, showing items that match the current filter settings. Click these to load them.
- **3**: numbers in brackets, _26_ in this case, shows how many items that match the filter; there are 26 instruments in the _Dulcitone_ library. If you were to select this filter, the results list would narrow down to the 26 matching items (unless you are using multi-select modes and already have filters).
- **Search libraries/tags**: filters search box: type here to narrow down the available filters.
- **Search instruments**: results search box: type here to filter the results list by name.
- **Favourites**: on each item in the results list you can click the <FAIcon icon="fa-regular fa-star" /> star that appear on the right when you hover over an item. This adds it to your favourites list, which can be accessed using the _Favourites_ button.
- **Left/right arrows** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-left" /><FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-right" />: navigate to the previous/next item in the results list.
- **Random icon** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" />: load a random item from the results list.
- **Location arrow** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-location-arrow" />: scroll to the currently loaded item in the results list.
- **Menu icon** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" />: open the menu to change between single/multi select modes.
- **Unload instrument**: unload the currently selected item. You can also click again on the loaded item in the results list to unload it.

## Filter buttons

Simple filter buttons are small and pill-shaped, used for tags, authors and other simple filters. Click on them to filter down the results list.

<img src="/images/filter-button.png" alt="Filter button" style={{borderRadius: '9999px'}} />

## Filter cards
Additionally, Floe has filter _cards_. They look quite different from the pill-shaped buttons, but they actually function mostly in the same way, they just offer more information and house a tree-like structure of folders (also just a type of filter button).

Cards are used for _sample libraries_ in the instrument and IR browsers, and for _preset banks_ in the preset browser.

Cards are made up of two sections, the _header_ (**1**) and the _body_ (**2**). Both sections can be clicked.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/filter-card.png"
    alt="Browser Filter Card"
    overlays={[
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "2%", left: "2%", width: "96%", height: "28%" },
        { number: 2, top: "31%", left: "2%", width: "96%", height: "67%" },
    ]}
/>

### Selecting in filter cards

Click on the header (**1**) to select the entire sample library or preset bank — the whole card shows a gold left edge. Alternatively, click on individual items in the body (**2**) to select specific folders within the library or bank — notice the item individually shows a gold left edge.

![Filter card all selected](/images/filter-card-all-selected.png)
![Filter card single item selected](/images/filter-card-body-item-selected.png)

- **Subtle gold background**: indicates the filter is selected.
- **Gold left edge**: indicates the filter is actively contributing to the results list.


### Folder trees

Items in the body (**2**) are sometimes hierarchical. You can see that some items are more indented than others. In this case, _Close_ and _Room_ are subfolders of _Mic Options_. 
If you select a parent folder, the results list also shows items that match the subfolders. You can see _Mic Options_ is selected (it has a gold background), but also the gold left edge border extends to _Close_ and _Room_ indicating they are included in the filtering of the results list.

![Filter card item tree selected](/images/filter-card-body-tree.png)

Developers typically don't use much hierarchy, but it can be an intuitive categorisation mechanism.

Just because a parent folder has subfolders does not mean that it doesn't include its own items too (albeit this is less common). Imagine folders on your computer: a folder can contain files as well as subfolders. So sometimes you will find items that do cannot be found searching through the subfolders alone.

### Right-click

You can often right-click on filter cards to bring up additional options.

## Multi-select mode

By default, the browsers are in single-select mode: clicking on a new filter replaces the existing filter.

Use the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu in the top-right to switch to multi-select mode.

![](/images/browser-menu.png)

- **AND** mode means that all selected filters must be matched for an item to appear in the results list. The more filters you select, the narrower the results become.
- **OR** mode means that items matching any of the selected filters will appear in the results list. The more filters you select, the broader the results become.

Also on this menu is _Show Primary Filter Section Header_. It toggles whether the cards have a collapsible header so that you can hide/show all the cards.

### Example OR mode

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser-multi-select-or.png"
    alt="Browser Multi Select"
    overlays={[
        { number: 1, top: "1.4%", left: "92.5%" },
        { number: 2, top: "5%", left: "39.7%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 3, top: "12%", left: "46%", width: "53%", height: "9.6%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu icon: choose the filter mode: single-select or multi-select (AND/OR).
- **2**: OR/AND indicator: when in a multi-select mode this label appears to remind you that multiple filtering functionality is active.
- **3**: active filters buttons: in all modes, this area shows the currently active filters. You can click them to remove them. Notice also the OR label between them denoting how the filtering currently works. In this case, the items in the list are tagged with _guitar_ OR in the folder _Low_ or in the folder _Core_.

### Example AND mode

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser-multi-select-and.png"
    alt="Browser Multi Select"
    overlays={[
    ]}
    boxes={[
    ]}
/>

When in AND mode, Floe helps you identify which filters are relevant by greying-out filters that wouldn't result in any matches if selected.

In the image above, the tag _tonal percussion_ is selected, resulting in a long list of items on the right. On the left panel, you can see some of the filters are greyed-out, such as the library _Wraith_ and the tag _synthesized_, whereas the library _Music Box Suite_ still shows bright text, as does the tag _acoustic_. This greying-out behaviour shows you when the AND combination would result in 0 matching results. For example, if you selected _tonal percussion_ AND _synthesized_, no instruments are tagged with both; the results list would be empty.

This greying-out behaviour allows you to more effectively narrow down your search without reaching dead ends all the time. It only applies in AND mode.

## Keyboard navigation

:::warning
We're aware that some DAWs, such as Reason, Ableton Live and Ardour, are interfering with Floe's keyboard input. We're working on solutions to this.
:::

The browsers support keyboard navigation using the arrow keys and enter. 

The focused item is denoted by a blue outline box. This box is initially hidden but becomes visible when you press any arrow key.

![Browser keyboard navigation](/images/browser-keyboard-nav.png)

- Up/down arrows to move the selection in the results list.
- Enter/return to 'click' the currently highlighted item.
- Left/right arrows or tab to move between the filters panel and results list.
- CTRL+F (CMD+F on Mac) to focus the results search box.
- Home/End to jump to the start/end of the results list.
- Hold CTRL (CMD on Mac) and use the up/down arrows to jump by to the previous/next folder.
- Page Up/Page Down to jump up/down by 8 items at a time.

Filter cards are keyboard-navigable, but filter buttons are not currently.

Commit message:

docs: mention browser double-click

website/docs/key-concepts/browsers.mdx, after:

---
id: browsers
title: Browsers
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: TODO
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

import NumberedOverlay from '@site/src/components/NumberedOverlay';

One of Floe's core goals is to provide a fast and fluid way to find and load sounds across large sound pools: the _browsers_ are the main way to do this.

You may spend a lot of time with the browsers. They're used in several places on the interface:
- Presets
- Instruments for each layer
- Impulse responses for the Convolution Reverb effect

They all largely work the same way, with some minor differences depending on context.

<video width="100%" controls>
  <source src="/images/browser-usage.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

## Overview

The fundamental design is a two-panel layout: filters on the left, and results on the right (loadable items).

Similar to if you were shopping online for t-shirts: you might use filters to narrow down the results by size, colour, price range, etc., and then browse the results that match your criteria. 

The same principle applies here, except we use filters such as library, tag, or folder to instantly narrow down results of presets, instruments, or impulse responses.

By default, we start simple - you can only select one filter at a time; if you click on another filter, it replaces the existing one. You can change to a multi-select mode using the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu in the top-right.

When no filters are applied, all items are shown in the results list.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser.png"
    alt="Browser Panel"
    overlays={[
        { number: 3, top: "20%", left: "39.3%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "12%", left: "0.5%", width: "44.2%", height: "87.8%" },
        { number: 2, top: "12%", left: "46%", width: "53.5%", height: "87.8%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: filters panel: filters to narrow down the results. Here we can see filters for libraries (Celtic Harp, Dulcitone, Lost Reveries, etc.) and folders within those libraries (Core, Extras, Mic Options, etc.). Clicking on these will filter down the results on the right panel (2).
- **2**: the results list, showing items that match the current filter settings. Click these to load them. **Double-click** to load and close the browser in one action.
- **3**: numbers in brackets, _26_ in this case, shows how many items that match the filter; there are 26 instruments in the _Dulcitone_ library. If you were to select this filter, the results list would narrow down to the 26 matching items (unless you are using multi-select modes and already have filters).
- **Search libraries/tags**: filters search box: type here to narrow down the available filters.
- **Search instruments**: results search box: type here to filter the results list by name.
- **Favourites**: on each item in the results list you can click the <FAIcon icon="fa-regular fa-star" /> star that appear on the right when you hover over an item. This adds it to your favourites list, which can be accessed using the _Favourites_ button.
- **Left/right arrows** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-left" /><FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-right" />: navigate to the previous/next item in the results list.
- **Random icon** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" />: load a random item from the results list.
- **Location arrow** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-location-arrow" />: scroll to the currently loaded item in the results list.
- **Menu icon** <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" />: open the menu to change between single/multi select modes.
- **Unload instrument**: unload the currently selected item. You can also click again on the loaded item in the results list to unload it.

## Filter buttons

Simple filter buttons are small and pill-shaped, used for tags, authors and other simple filters. Click on them to filter down the results list.

<img src="/images/filter-button.png" alt="Filter button" style={{borderRadius: '9999px'}} />

## Filter cards
Additionally, Floe has filter _cards_. They look quite different from the pill-shaped buttons, but they actually function mostly in the same way, they just offer more information and house a tree-like structure of folders (also just a type of filter button).

Cards are used for _sample libraries_ in the instrument and IR browsers, and for _preset banks_ in the preset browser.

Cards are made up of two sections, the _header_ (**1**) and the _body_ (**2**). Both sections can be clicked.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/filter-card.png"
    alt="Browser Filter Card"
    overlays={[
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "2%", left: "2%", width: "96%", height: "28%" },
        { number: 2, top: "31%", left: "2%", width: "96%", height: "67%" },
    ]}
/>

### Selecting in filter cards

Click on the header (**1**) to select the entire sample library or preset bank — the whole card shows a gold left edge. Alternatively, click on individual items in the body (**2**) to select specific folders within the library or bank — notice the item individually shows a gold left edge.

![Filter card all selected](/images/filter-card-all-selected.png)
![Filter card single item selected](/images/filter-card-body-item-selected.png)

- **Subtle gold background**: indicates the filter is selected.
- **Gold left edge**: indicates the filter is actively contributing to the results list.


### Folder trees

Items in the body (**2**) are sometimes hierarchical. You can see that some items are more indented than others. In this case, _Close_ and _Room_ are subfolders of _Mic Options_. 
If you select a parent folder, the results list also shows items that match the subfolders. You can see _Mic Options_ is selected (it has a gold background), but also the gold left edge border extends to _Close_ and _Room_ indicating they are included in the filtering of the results list.

![Filter card item tree selected](/images/filter-card-body-tree.png)

Developers typically don't use much hierarchy, but it can be an intuitive categorisation mechanism.

Just because a parent folder has subfolders does not mean that it doesn't include its own items too (albeit this is less common). Imagine folders on your computer: a folder can contain files as well as subfolders. So sometimes you will find items that do cannot be found searching through the subfolders alone.

### Right-click

You can often right-click on filter cards to bring up additional options.

## Multi-select mode

By default, the browsers are in single-select mode: clicking on a new filter replaces the existing filter.

Use the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu in the top-right to switch to multi-select mode.

![](/images/browser-menu.png)

- **AND** mode means that all selected filters must be matched for an item to appear in the results list. The more filters you select, the narrower the results become.
- **OR** mode means that items matching any of the selected filters will appear in the results list. The more filters you select, the broader the results become.

Also on this menu is _Show Primary Filter Section Header_. It toggles whether the cards have a collapsible header so that you can hide/show all the cards.

### Example OR mode

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser-multi-select-or.png"
    alt="Browser Multi Select"
    overlays={[
        { number: 1, top: "1.4%", left: "92.5%" },
        { number: 2, top: "5%", left: "39.7%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 3, top: "12%", left: "46%", width: "53%", height: "9.6%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-vertical" /> menu icon: choose the filter mode: single-select or multi-select (AND/OR).
- **2**: OR/AND indicator: when in a multi-select mode this label appears to remind you that multiple filtering functionality is active.
- **3**: active filters buttons: in all modes, this area shows the currently active filters. You can click them to remove them. Notice also the OR label between them denoting how the filtering currently works. In this case, the items in the list are tagged with _guitar_ OR in the folder _Low_ or in the folder _Core_.

### Example AND mode

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/browser-multi-select-and.png"
    alt="Browser Multi Select"
    overlays={[
    ]}
    boxes={[
    ]}
/>

When in AND mode, Floe helps you identify which filters are relevant by greying-out filters that wouldn't result in any matches if selected.

In the image above, the tag _tonal percussion_ is selected, resulting in a long list of items on the right. On the left panel, you can see some of the filters are greyed-out, such as the library _Wraith_ and the tag _synthesized_, whereas the library _Music Box Suite_ still shows bright text, as does the tag _acoustic_. This greying-out behaviour shows you when the AND combination would result in 0 matching results. For example, if you selected _tonal percussion_ AND _synthesized_, no instruments are tagged with both; the results list would be empty.

This greying-out behaviour allows you to more effectively narrow down your search without reaching dead ends all the time. It only applies in AND mode.

## Keyboard navigation

:::warning
We're aware that some DAWs, such as Reason, Ableton Live and Ardour, are interfering with Floe's keyboard input. We're working on solutions to this.
:::

The browsers support keyboard navigation using the arrow keys and enter. 

The focused item is denoted by a blue outline box. This box is initially hidden but becomes visible when you press any arrow key.

![Browser keyboard navigation](/images/browser-keyboard-nav.png)

- Up/down arrows to move the selection in the results list.
- Enter/return to 'click' the currently highlighted item.
- Left/right arrows or tab to move between the filters panel and results list.
- CTRL+F (CMD+F on Mac) to focus the results search box.
- Home/End to jump to the start/end of the results list.
- Hold CTRL (CMD on Mac) and use the up/down arrows to jump by to the previous/next folder.
- Page Up/Page Down to jump up/down by 8 items at a time.

Filter cards are keyboard-navigable, but filter buttons are not currently.
