docs/src/home.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

<div class="warning">
Floe is currently in beta — please give it a try today.
</div>

<div style="padding-bottom: 30px;"></div>

<p align="left">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_transparent.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_transparent_dark.svg">
        <img alt="Floe logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_background.svg" width="350" height="auto" style="max-width: 100%;">
    </picture>
</p>


<h1 style="font-size: 3.1rem">Streamlined sample-based instrument platform</h1>
<p style="font-size: 2rem; margin-bottom: 4px;">Floe lets you find, perform and transform sounds from sample libraries — from realistic instruments to synthesised tones. Handmade with care, Floe is no-hassle, open-source and <strong>always free</strong>.</p>

<div style="padding-bottom: 10px;"></div>

<p style="text-align: center; margin-top: 40px;">
<a href="https://floe.audio/installation/download-and-install-floe.html" style="
  background-color: #555e85; 
  border: none; 
  border-radius: 4px; 
  color: white; 
  padding: 15px 32px; 
  text-align: center; 
  text-decoration: none; 
  display: inline-block; 
  font-size: 16px; 
  font-weight: bold; 
  margin: 4px 2px; 
  cursor: pointer; 
  box-shadow: 0 2px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); 
  transition: all 0.3s ease;">Download Now</a>
</p>

## Find the right sound quickly
Floe's intuitive browsing system works across all your Floe sample libraries, bringing together instruments and presets through extensive **categories**, standardised **tags** (by mood, timbre, type, etc.), and **search**. The sound you need is always a few clicks away.

![Picker GUI](./images/inst-picker-gui.png)

## Transform sounds
With three distinct layers, Floe lets you blend instruments across different libraries. Transform sounds with loop and crossfade controls that bridge the gap between multisampling and synthesis. Process the sounds further with a rack of ==effects-count== built-in effects.

![Transform sounds GUI](./images/transform-sounds.png)

## Focus on making music
Available as a plugin for your DAW (CLAP, VST3, and AU) on Windows and macOS. No accounts, no subscriptions, no interruptions — just musical creation. Openness is at the core of Floe and its libraries.

## Expanding library selection
The list of [libraries available](./packages/available-packages.md) for Floe is growing. And they're installable in a few clicks. If you're a developer, you can make your own libraries for Floe and request adding them to the list.

![Libraries list GUI](./images/expanding-libraries-list.png)

## Handmade and open software
Handmade and detail-focused, Floe is a professional-grade tool available to everyone. It's made by Sam Windell, who also runs a sample library development company: [FrozenPlain](https://frozenplain.com). 

Anyone can make [libraries](./usage/sample-libraries.md) for Floe and contribute to the open source project. By consolidating our efforts into improving this engine, we improve the capabilities of all of its libraries for everyone.

## Built on a solid foundation
Built on the proven architecture of FrozenPlain's Mirage, used in professional productions for years, Floe is the next evolution, designed with careful attention to reliability and performance. We're committed to further expanding its capabilities while maintaining backwards compatibility.

Already use Mirage? Read more about the [transition to Floe](./about-the-project/mirage.md).

## A platform for sample library instruments
Floe is a platform for professional sample library products with these 2 key features:
1. Ready-to-use presets (fine-tuned patches made using the library's instruments)
1. Direct access to sample-based instruments with sound-shaping tools for crafting your own variations: layering, looping, envelopes, effects, LFOs, macro-parameters, and more.

This makes Floe like a **sample-based synthesizer** or open **ROMpler** rather than a traditional sampler. For now, importing your own custom samples requires creating a sample library (programming required).

Floe supports both multisampled and single-sample instruments.

## About this website
This website contains everything you need to know about Floe. It's presented in a book-like format, with chapters in the sidebar. 

If you're viewing this online, you might find the search feature useful: open it by clicking the <i class="fa fa-search"></i> magnifying glass icon at the top-left of the page. Additionally, there is a <i class="fa fa-print"></i> print icon at the top-right for either printing this book, or saving it to a PDF.

Commit message:

docs: add argument about free-software benefit

docs/src/home.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

<div class="warning">
Floe is currently in beta — please give it a try today.
</div>

<div style="padding-bottom: 30px;"></div>

<p align="left">
    <picture>
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: dark)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_transparent.svg">
        <source media="(prefers-color-scheme: light)" srcset="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_transparent_dark.svg">
        <img alt="Floe logo" src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/floe-audio/Floe-Logos/HEAD/horizontal_background.svg" width="350" height="auto" style="max-width: 100%;">
    </picture>
</p>


<h1 style="font-size: 3.1rem">Streamlined sample-based instrument platform</h1>
<p style="font-size: 2rem; margin-bottom: 4px;">Floe lets you find, perform and transform sounds from sample libraries — from realistic instruments to synthesised tones. Handmade with care, Floe is no-hassle, open-source and <strong>always free</strong>.</p>

<div style="padding-bottom: 10px;"></div>

<p style="text-align: center; margin-top: 40px;">
<a href="https://floe.audio/installation/download-and-install-floe.html" style="
  background-color: #555e85; 
  border: none; 
  border-radius: 4px; 
  color: white; 
  padding: 15px 32px; 
  text-align: center; 
  text-decoration: none; 
  display: inline-block; 
  font-size: 16px; 
  font-weight: bold; 
  margin: 4px 2px; 
  cursor: pointer; 
  box-shadow: 0 2px 5px rgba(0,0,0,0.2); 
  transition: all 0.3s ease;">Download Now</a>
</p>

## Find the right sound quickly
Floe's intuitive browsing system works across all your Floe sample libraries, bringing together instruments and presets through extensive **categories**, standardised **tags** (by mood, timbre, type, etc.), and **search**. The sound you need is always a few clicks away.

![Picker GUI](./images/inst-picker-gui.png)

## Transform sounds
With three distinct layers, Floe lets you blend instruments across different libraries. Transform sounds with loop and crossfade controls that bridge the gap between multisampling and synthesis. Process the sounds further with a rack of ==effects-count== built-in effects.

![Transform sounds GUI](./images/transform-sounds.png)

## Focus on making music
Available as a plugin for your DAW (CLAP, VST3, and AU) on Windows and macOS. No accounts, no subscriptions, no interruptions — just musical creation. Openness is at the core of Floe and its libraries.

## Expanding library selection
The list of [libraries available](./packages/available-packages.md) for Floe is growing. And they're installable in a few clicks. If you're a developer, you can make your own libraries for Floe and request adding them to the list.

![Libraries list GUI](./images/expanding-libraries-list.png)

## Handmade and open software
Handmade and detail-focused, Floe is a professional-grade tool available to everyone. It's made by Sam Windell, who also runs a sample library development company: [FrozenPlain](https://frozenplain.com). 

Anyone can make [libraries](./usage/sample-libraries.md) for Floe and contribute to the project. By consolidating our efforts into improving this engine, we improve the capabilities of all of its libraries for everyone.

## Built on a solid foundation
Built on the proven architecture of FrozenPlain's Mirage, used in professional productions for years, Floe is the next evolution, designed with careful attention to reliability and performance. We're committed to further expanding its capabilities while maintaining backwards compatibility.

Already use Mirage? Read more about the [transition to Floe](./about-the-project/mirage.md).

## A platform for sample library instruments
Floe is a platform for professional sample library products with these 2 key features:
1. Ready-to-use presets (fine-tuned patches made using the library's instruments)
1. Direct access to sample-based instruments with sound-shaping tools for crafting your own variations: layering, looping, envelopes, effects, LFOs, macro-parameters, and more.

This makes Floe like a **sample-based synthesizer** or open **ROMpler** rather than a traditional sampler. For now, importing your own custom samples requires creating a sample library (programming required).

Floe supports both multisampled and single-sample instruments.

## Your tools, your creativity
Floe is built as open-source software, meaning its code is freely available for anyone to see, modify, and improve (it's GPL licensed). 

While this might seem like a technical detail, it offers some potentially very valuable benefits. Any developer can pick it up and keep it running on future systems, ensuring longevity. If you need a specific feature, you could hire a developer to create your own customized version. Most importantly, open-source transparency builds trust — you or any community developer can verify that the program genuinely serves meaningful music creation rather than employing dubious business tactics.

## About this website
This website contains everything you need to know about Floe. It's presented in a book-like format, with chapters in the sidebar. 

If you're viewing this online, you might find the search feature useful: open it by clicking the <i class="fa fa-search"></i> magnifying glass icon at the top-left of the page. Additionally, there is a <i class="fa fa-print"></i> print icon at the top-right for either printing this book, or saving it to a PDF.
