docs/src/installation/download-and-install-floe.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# Download & Install Floe

There's two ways to install Floe: use the installer, or manually move files. 

Either way, Floe is backwards-compatible[^pre-releases]. This means that you can replace an old version of Floe with a new version and everything will work.

Please check the [requirements](requirements.md) before downloading. 

Additional information:
- Floe is totally free, there's no signup or account needed; just download and install.
- Sample libraries and presets are installed separately via [packages](../packages/install-packages.md).
- The latest released version of Floe is v==latest-release-version==.

[^pre-releases]: Main releases are backwards compatible, but alpha and beta versions do not have this guarantee.

To [update Floe](./updating.md), just download and run the latest installer again.

## Installer (recommended)

<img src="../images/installer-macos-gui.png" width="49%" style="display: inline;">
<img src="../images/installer-windows-gui.png" width="49%" style="display: inline;">


> **<i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Floe Installer Windows**:<br>==Floe-Installer-Windows-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Installer macOS Apple Silicon[^mac-arm]**:<br>==Floe-Installer-macOS-Apple-Silicon-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Installer macOS Intel[^mac-intel]**:<br>==Floe-Installer-macOS-Intel-markdown-link==

Download, unzip, and run the installer program. The installer will guide you through the installation process, including choosing the plugin formats you want to install. 

On Windows, close your DAW first. 

## Manually Install (advanced)

> **<i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Floe Manual Install Windows**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-Windows-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Manual Install macOS Apple Silicon[^mac-arm]**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-macOS-Apple-Silicon-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Manual Install macOS Intel[^mac-intel]**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-macOS-Intel-markdown-link==
>
> **<i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Floe Linux CLAP**:<br>==Floe-CLAP-Linux-markdown-link==
>
> **<i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Floe Linux VST3**:<br>==Floe-VST3-Linux-markdown-link==


Normally you'll want to use the installer, but there could be some cases where you'd prefer to install Floe manually. To allow for this, we provide a zip file that contains Floe's plugin files. Extract it and move the files to your plugin folders.

##### Windows:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `C:\Program Files\Common Files\CLAP`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3`

##### macOS:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/CLAP`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3`
- AU: Move `Floe.component` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components`

##### Linux:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `~/.clap` or `/usr/lib/clap`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `~/.vst3` or `/usr/lib/vst3` or `/usr/local/lib/vst3`

---

Download links can also be found on the [Github releases page](https://github.com/floe-audio/Floe/releases/latest).

[^mac-arm]: For computers with [Apple Silicon](https://support.apple.com/en-us/116943) chips; Apple's line of M processors (M1, M2, etc.); ARM64 architecture.
[^mac-intel]: For computers with Intel chips; x86_64 architecture.

Commit message:

docs: add easy command to run to install linux plugins

docs/src/installation/download-and-install-floe.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# Download & Install Floe

There's two ways to install Floe: use the installer, or manually move files. 

Either way, Floe is backwards-compatible[^pre-releases]. This means that you can replace an old version of Floe with a new version and everything will work.

Please check the [requirements](requirements.md) before downloading. 

Additional information:
- Floe is totally free, there's no signup or account needed; just download and install.
- Sample libraries and presets are installed separately via [packages](../packages/install-packages.md).
- The latest released version of Floe is v==latest-release-version==.

[^pre-releases]: Main releases are backwards compatible, but alpha and beta versions do not have this guarantee.

To [update Floe](./updating.md), just download and run the latest installer again.

## Installer (recommended)

<img src="../images/installer-macos-gui.png" width="49%" style="display: inline;">
<img src="../images/installer-windows-gui.png" width="49%" style="display: inline;">


> **<i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Floe Installer Windows**:<br>==Floe-Installer-Windows-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Installer macOS Apple Silicon[^mac-arm]**:<br>==Floe-Installer-macOS-Apple-Silicon-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Installer macOS Intel[^mac-intel]**:<br>==Floe-Installer-macOS-Intel-markdown-link==

Download, unzip, and run the installer program. The installer will guide you through the installation process, including choosing the plugin formats you want to install. 

On Windows, close your DAW first. 

<div style="margin-top: 80px;"></div>

## Linux
Run the following command in a terminal to install or update Floe.

For CLAP:
```bash
mkdir -p ~/.clap && curl -L ==Floe-CLAP-Linux-url== | tar -xzf - -C ~/.clap

```

For VST3:

```bash
mkdir -p ~/.vst3 && curl -L ==Floe-VST3-Linux-url== | tar -xzf - -C ~/.vst3

```

## Manually Install (advanced)

> **<i class="fa fa-windows"></i> Floe Manual Install Windows**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-Windows-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Manual Install macOS Apple Silicon[^mac-arm]**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-macOS-Apple-Silicon-markdown-link==
> 
> **<i class="fa fa-apple"></i> Floe Manual Install macOS Intel[^mac-intel]**:<br>==Floe-Manual-Install-macOS-Intel-markdown-link==
>
> **<i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Floe Linux CLAP**:<br>==Floe-CLAP-Linux-markdown-link==
>
> **<i class="fa fa-linux"></i> Floe Linux VST3**:<br>==Floe-VST3-Linux-markdown-link==


Normally you'll want to use the installer, but there could be some cases where you'd prefer to install Floe manually. To allow for this, we provide a zip file that contains Floe's plugin files. Extract it and move the files to your plugin folders.

##### Windows:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `C:\Program Files\Common Files\CLAP`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3`

##### macOS:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/CLAP`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3`
- AU: Move `Floe.component` into `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components`

##### Linux:
- CLAP: Move `Floe.clap` into `~/.clap` or `/usr/lib/clap`
- VST3: Move `Floe.vst3` into `~/.vst3` or `/usr/lib/vst3` or `/usr/local/lib/vst3`

---

Download links can also be found on the [Github releases page](https://github.com/floe-audio/Floe/releases/latest).

[^mac-arm]: For computers with [Apple Silicon](https://support.apple.com/en-us/116943) chips; Apple's line of M processors (M1, M2, etc.); ARM64 architecture.
[^mac-intel]: For computers with Intel chips; x86_64 architecture.
