docs/src/installation/uninstalling.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# Uninstalling

## Windows

On Windows, Floe can be uninstalled using the standard method for uninstalling software, via the 'Add or Remove Programs' control panel. See the [Windows documentation here](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/uninstall-or-remove-apps-and-programs-in-windows-4b55f974-2cc6-2d2b-d092-5905080eaf98).

This uninstalls Floe, but not libraries or presets. Follow the instructions below to delete libraries and presets.

This uninstaller also supports uninstalling Mirage, the predecessor to Floe.

## macOS

We don't have an uninstaller program for macOS. But you can manually uninstall Floe by deleting its files.


## Manual Uninstall

### Delete libraries and presets
1. Open Floe
1. Click on the cog icon <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> at the top.
1. Open the 'Folders' tab.
1. For each of the paths click the 'open folder' icon: <i class="fa fa-external-link-square"></i>. This will open the folder in your file manager.
1. Delete all files in the folder.

Repeat this for each folder in Floe preferences panel.

### Delete Floe
Floe consists of plugin files, and a preferences file. The preferences file is normally tiny: around 1 Kb in size. Plugins files are normally around 15 MB in size.

Delete the following files if they exist:

##### macOS
- Preferences: `/Users/Shared/Floe/Preferences/floe.ini`
- CLAP: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/CLAP/Floe.clap`
- VST3: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/Floe.vst3`
- AU: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/Floe.component`

##### Windows
For Windows, use the uninstaller program described above. If you want to manually delete Floe, delete the following files:
- Preferences: `C:\Users\Public\Floe\Preferences\floe.ini`
- CLAP: `C:\Program Files\Common Files\CLAP\Floe.clap`
- VST3: `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3\Floe.vst3`


### Delete Mirage
If you used to have [Mirage](../about-the-project/mirage.md) installed then some additional files may be present. To uninstall Mirage, delete the following files. Some of these files may not exist.

##### macOS
- Preferences: `/Library/Application Support/FrozenPlain/Mirage/Settings/mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `/Users/<your-name>/Music/Audio Music Apps/Plug-In Settings/FrozenPlain/mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `/Users/<your-name>/Library/Application Support/FrozenPlain/Mirage/Settings/mirage.json`
- VST2: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST/Mirage.vst`
- AU: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/FrozenPlain Mirage.component`

##### Windows
- Preferences: `C:\ProgramData\Mirage\Settings\mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `C:\Users\<your-name>\AppData\Local\FrozenPlain\Mirage\mirage.json`
- VST2: `C:\Program Files\VSTPlugins\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Steinberg\VSTPlugins\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST2\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Common Files\Steinberg\VST2\mirage64.dll`

Commit message:

docs: windows: improve docs about closing your DAW before uninstalling
Often DAWs open plugin files with exclusive file mode meaning other
processes will get 'access denied' when trying to open them.

Therefore the DAW needs to be closed before we attempt to delete
plugins.

Closes #141.

docs/src/installation/uninstalling.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2024 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
-->

# Uninstalling

## Uninstall plugins

##### Windows

On Windows, Floe can be uninstalled using the standard method for uninstalling software, via the 'Add or Remove Programs' control panel. See the [Windows documentation here](https://support.microsoft.com/en-gb/windows/uninstall-or-remove-apps-and-programs-in-windows-4b55f974-2cc6-2d2b-d092-5905080eaf98).

Close your DAW before running the uninstaller.

This uninstalls Floe, but not libraries or presets. Follow the instructions below to delete libraries and presets.

This uninstaller also supports uninstalling Mirage, the predecessor to Floe.

##### macOS

We don't have an uninstaller program for macOS. Please follow the manual uninstall instructions below.


## Uninstall libraries and presets
##### Windows and macOS
1. Open Floe
1. Click on the cog icon <i class="fa fa-cog"></i> at the top.
1. Open the 'Folders' tab.
1. For each of the paths click the 'open folder' icon: <i class="fa fa-external-link-square"></i>. This will open the folder in your file manager.
1. Delete all files in the folder.

Repeat this for each folder in Floe preferences panel.


## Manually uninstall plugins

### Delete Floe
Floe consists of plugin files, and a preferences file. The preferences file is normally tiny: around 1 Kb in size. Plugins files are normally around 15 MB in size.

Delete the following files if they exist:

##### macOS
- Preferences: `/Users/Shared/Floe/Preferences/floe.ini`
- CLAP: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/CLAP/Floe.clap`
- VST3: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST3/Floe.vst3`
- AU: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/Floe.component`

##### Windows
For Windows, use the uninstaller program described above. If you want to manually delete Floe, delete the following files:
- Preferences: `C:\Users\Public\Floe\Preferences\floe.ini`
- CLAP: `C:\Program Files\Common Files\CLAP\Floe.clap`
- VST3: `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST3\Floe.vst3`


### Delete Mirage
If you used to have [Mirage](../about-the-project/mirage.md) installed then some additional files may be present. To uninstall Mirage, delete the following files. Some of these files may not exist.

##### macOS
- Preferences: `/Library/Application Support/FrozenPlain/Mirage/Settings/mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `/Users/<your-name>/Music/Audio Music Apps/Plug-In Settings/FrozenPlain/mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `/Users/<your-name>/Library/Application Support/FrozenPlain/Mirage/Settings/mirage.json`
- VST2: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/VST/Mirage.vst`
- AU: `/Library/Audio/Plug-Ins/Components/FrozenPlain Mirage.component`

##### Windows
- Preferences: `C:\ProgramData\Mirage\Settings\mirage.json`
- Preferences (alternate): `C:\Users\<your-name>\AppData\Local\FrozenPlain\Mirage\mirage.json`
- VST2: `C:\Program Files\VSTPlugins\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Steinberg\VSTPlugins\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Common Files\VST2\mirage64.dll`
- VST2 (alternate): `C:\Program Files\Common Files\Steinberg\VST2\mirage64.dll`
