website/docs/getting-started/quick-start-guide.mdx, before:

---
id: quick-start-guide
title: Quick Start Guide
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

Get up and running with Floe in just a few simple steps.

## Setting up Floe

1. **[Download Floe](/download)** and install it on your computer.
1. **[Download packages](/packages)** of your choice.
1. **Open your DAW**.
1. **Add the Floe plugin** - often found under 'Floe Audio' in your plugin list.
1. **Install your packages** by opening the Preferences <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-cog" /> and clicking the **Install package** button.
1. **Select your downloaded package** ZIP file(s). After a few moments, your libraries and presets will be available to use.

## Load a preset

Let's now make some sounds:

1. **Open the preset picker** by clicking the preset name at the top of Floe's window (usually *Default* at first).
1. **Choose a preset** by clicking on one from the list on the right.
1. **Play some notes** on your MIDI keyboard or DAW piano roll.
1. **Close the preset picker** using the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-xmark" /> button or clicking outside the picker.

## Change an instrument

A _Preset_ is a full setup of all of Floe's sounds and parameters.

An _Instrument_ on the other hand, is a single sound-generator within Floe. These are loaded into any of Floe's 3 layers.

1. **Open the instrument picker** by clicking the instrument name in the layer you want to change. An instrument name might be something like *Xylophone* or *Analog Pad*.
1. **Choose an instrument** by clicking on one from the list on the right.
1. **Play some notes** on your MIDI keyboard or DAW piano roll and notice how the sound has changed.


Instruments are the building blocks of sounds in Floe. Sometimes an instrument is a single sample, sometimes it's a detailed multi-sampled emulation of a real instrument.

Commit message:

website: improve quick start guide

website/docs/getting-started/quick-start-guide.mdx, after:

---
id: quick-start-guide
title: Quick Start Guide
hide_table_of_contents: true
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

Get up and running with Floe in just a few simple steps.

## Before you start

Floe is an **engine** — it's empty without sample libraries.

If you already have packages (perhaps sent to your email), you can skip to the next section. Otherwise, browse the [packages](/packages) page to discover free and paid options.

## Setting up Floe

1. **[Download Floe](/download)** and install it on your computer.
1. **Download your packages** of your choice. **No need to unzip/extract them**.
1. **Open your DAW**.
1. **Add the Floe plugin** - often found under 'Floe Audio' in your plugin list.
1. **Install your packages** by opening the Floe's Preferences <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-cog" /> and clicking the **Install package** button.
1. **Select your downloaded package** ZIP file(s). After a few moments, your libraries and presets will be available to use.

## Load a preset

Now, let's make some sound:

1. **Open the preset picker** by clicking the preset name at the top of Floe's window (usually *Default* at first).
1. **Choose a preset** by clicking on one from the list on the right.
1. **Play some notes** on your MIDI keyboard or DAW piano roll.
1. **Close the preset picker** using the <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-xmark" /> button or clicking outside the picker.

## Change an instrument

A _Preset_ is a full production-ready setup of all of Floe's sounds and parameters.

An _Instrument_ on the other hand, is a single sound-generator within Floe. These are loaded into any of Floe's 3 layers.

Instruments are the building blocks in Floe. Sometimes an instrument is a single sample, sometimes it's a detailed multi-sampled emulation of a real instrument.

1. **Open the instrument picker** by clicking the instrument name in the layer you want to change. An instrument name might be something like *Xylophone* or *Analog Pad*.
1. **Choose an instrument** by clicking on one from the list on the right.
1. **Play some notes** on your MIDI keyboard or DAW piano roll and notice how the sound has changed.
