website/docs/usage/randomisation.mdx, before:

---
id: randomisation
title: Randomisation
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: TODO
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

import NumberedOverlay from '@site/src/components/NumberedOverlay';

Floe has various randomisation features to help you explore new sounds quickly.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/whole-gui.png"
    alt="Floe's main user interface with numbered overlays indicating the randomisation features."
    overlays={[
        { number: 2, top: "-2.2%", left: "83%" },
        { number: 3, top: "9%", left: "57%" },
        { number: 4, top: "9%", left: "92%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "0%", left: "68%", width: "5.7%", height: "7%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: Picker panel controls. Each [picker panel](../key-concepts/picker-panel) has a set of controls to navigate through the current item list or load a random one. These buttons are also available on the picker panel itself. In this case, these controls are for the Presets picker panel. The left and right arrows <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-left" /><FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-right" /> navigate to the previous/next item in the results list. The random icon <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" /> loads a random item from the results list. Open the picker panel to see the current results list and choose different filters to change or narrow down the results. For example, you can open up the picker panel and select the filter for the library 'Music Box Suite'. The random button will now only choose presets relating to that library.
- **2**, <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-v" /> : Menu for _Randomise All Parameters_ function. This completely randomises all the parameters in Floe and loads random instruments and impulse response; these both honour the currently selected filters in the picker panels.
- **3**: Layer instruments randomisation. Randomise all 3 layers' instruments at once. It's as if you clicked the random button <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" /> in each layer's instrument picker panel one after the other. It honours the currently selected filters in each layer's instrument picker panel.
- **4**: Effects randomisation. Entirely randomise all the effects: change all parameters, reorder and enable/disable effects. This is a quick way to explore new effect combinations and settings.

Commit message:

rename picker to browser
Browser is the more common term in the audio production space for these
sorts of things. While 'picker' is pretty good too, let's just stick to
common parlance.

website/docs/usage/randomisation.mdx, after:

---
id: randomisation
title: Randomisation
hide_table_of_contents: true
description: TODO
---

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2025 Sam Windell
SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-SA-4.0
-->

import NumberedOverlay from '@site/src/components/NumberedOverlay';

Floe has various randomisation features to help you explore new sounds quickly.

<NumberedOverlay
    src="/images/whole-gui.png"
    alt="Floe's main user interface with numbered overlays indicating the randomisation features."
    overlays={[
        { number: 2, top: "-2.2%", left: "83%" },
        { number: 3, top: "9%", left: "57%" },
        { number: 4, top: "9%", left: "92%" },
    ]}
    boxes={[
        { number: 1, top: "0%", left: "68%", width: "5.7%", height: "7%" },
    ]}
/>

- **1**: Browser controls. Each [browser](../key-concepts/browser) has a set of controls to navigate through the current item list or load a random one. These buttons are also available on the browser itself. In this case, these controls are for the Presets browser. The left and right arrows <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-left" /><FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-caret-right" /> navigate to the previous/next item in the results list. The random icon <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" /> loads a random item from the results list. Open the browser to see the current results list and choose different filters to change or narrow down the results. For example, you can open up the browser and select the filter for the library 'Music Box Suite'. The random button will now only choose presets relating to that library.
- **2**, <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-ellipsis-v" /> : Menu for _Randomise All Parameters_ function. This completely randomises all the parameters in Floe and loads random instruments and impulse response; these both honour the currently selected filters in the browsers.
- **3**: Layer instruments randomisation. Randomise all 3 layers' instruments at once. It's as if you clicked the random button <FAIcon icon="fa-solid fa-shuffle" /> in each layer's instrument browser one after the other. It honours the currently selected filters in each layer's instrument browser.
- **4**: Effects randomisation. Entirely randomise all the effects: change all parameters, reorder and enable/disable effects. This is a quick way to explore new effect combinations and settings.
